Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2014-04-21T02:24:01-04:00

====== The Super Family ======
Created Monday 21 April 2014

George R.R. Martin — 'A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies, said Jojen. The man who never reads lives only one.'

The Super Family is an interversal hero alliance with the mission of fighting evil. Previously chronicled through A.A. Network episodic movies dating from the creation of the House.

The Universal War
An interversal tear-storm in which many major conflicts in various universes occur all at the same time. Engineered by Makuta.

**Thoughts on the Narrative**

This is my own personal story so the only person I have to please is me. The story must give meaning to my own existence, an internal story to be a lone candle in the darkness. I live this world so long as I keep it living. 

I intend to mature it but keep previous revisions.

Known cross-universe spiritual/covert operations of the “Trinity” (preliminary designation)

Irascorus, shell of Dr. Seinyor, struck down by Arthas
???, existential episode on 19 Oct 2013, unknown outcome
[Conditional] ???, (survivor?) of aforementioned episode, unindentified agent
Psychoneurospiritual operations in the Brain of Adam
Irascorus split (Icecrown Citadel battle, trace/partial restoration of Dr. Seinyor’s power, intervention of the Remnants, White Glint maiden flight)
Dr. Seinyor mercenary operations in the Armored Core universe
Binary causal singularity of the Universal War
Mass Effect universe and its Galactic Hyberbole
Halo Universe
Bioshock Universe
Skyrim and Oblivion, Tamrielic intervention?
Possible Rico Rodriguez and Dr. Seinyor appearance congruity
Future Events (through discernment of the transmundane)

Demilitarization of the Super Family - In regards to the previous policy of actually being the invading tyrants in worlds with their own moral codes, The Remnants are implementing a hands-off policy in regards to various conflicts in worlds until the mission of the Super Family can be revised and made clear.

The Remnants are what the remaining members of the Super Family call themselves. Exhausted, many have relinquished their The Remnants are just that; The remnants of the Super Family still searching for Dr. Seinyor, the core adherents to the team. 

==== Resigned Completely ====
Louie
Serena
Tessa
Gexerica
All "cars" remain as vehicles but not "members"
Auma
Nell


==== The Super Family (On Board) ====
Grandma Pikachu (Noncombat)
Sunflash
Bella (Noncombat)
Stacie Seinyor 
The Powerpuff Girls
The Rowdyruff Boys
Crash Bandicoot, Aku Aku


==== The Super Family (In Homeworld) ====
The Toa Nuva
The Bohrok Kal
Turaga (as combat advisors)
Tohunga (noncombat)
Boar (Retired) (Noncombat)
Pooh Bear (nc)
Tigger (nc)
Piglet (nc)

Remaining 
All Transformers

Family Friends

Summons/Advisors
Bohrok Va (as cocombatants to Bohrok Kal

Kids returned with parents to respective worlds.

As of SF16, the rings and summon network is not active. These operatives are essentially on their own until Dr. Seinyor returns. They will need to be re-contacted and the new system will have to be researched.

Unlimiter Reality Distortion investigation - Matter cannot be created or destroyed, only converted. The Unlimiter has been pulling energy from somewhere. Black holes? The cause of the loss of the Universal war?

The Universal War and the subsequent loss was due to an equalization action. Light and dark are intimately connected.

Re-alignment of the “Trinity”
Contact with the Funny Guy Universe
Settlement of the Remnants in Legoworld

I'm trying to take Funny Guy, the Super Family, and my own life, and weave them all together. Both narratives went silent around the same time. 2003-2005. For nearly 10 years there has been silence. The creative energies stopped. This changes now. The valves come off and the pressure will release. 

Dr. (Adam Mitchell) Seinyor
Dr. Seinyor is pretty much me and what I think of myself. Even from what I've written a few years ago, about the "loner, ridiculed" origin story.

The Toa Nuva are the Toa. Drive Forms. Temporary combat forms that take energy to maintain. Same with the Bohrok/Kal

The House no longer exists in Lego form. I am unsure of whether to represent it in Minecraft or with the huge number of Lego bricks I own. With Minecraft I can quickly and easily shape terrain.

Previously, the passage of time in this narrative was hyperbolic and exaggerated in order to convey a sense of everlastingness.

Eventually the team gets so large that characterization becomes increasingly difficult. I propose a Kingdom Hearts-style summon system so the extended family can jump into combat when called. The New Family must have some kind of combat alert communications system so all can be at prime readiness. Similar to the terror alert system. 

SF12 - Cloud Connected Remix
No Leaf Clover

The Ansem Reports

Multiverse theory, Kingdom Hearts, Bioshock's "Lighthouses"

====== Chain of command and factions (merged from a separate scraps file) ======

The Super Family has no chain of command, although Dr. Seinyor is seen by everyone as the overall leader of the Super Family due to his efforts putting the team together. Each "faction" contained within the team has its own respective leader. The Bionicles, for example, have Tahu (Nuva) as their leader, despite Takanuva's recent arrival. The Redwallers accept Matthias as their chief, and the Transformers look to Optimus Prime for their specific guidance. Smaller teams, such as the Powerpuff Girls and the Rowdyruff Boys recongize Blossom and Brick as their leaders, respectfully. Those who are not of a specific faction (i.e. Grandma Pikachu, the Bandicoots, Geckos, Dragons, Swans, etc.) look to Aku Aku for their leadership. Most of the women of the SF claim a part in the team's "preschool", which educates the children of the SF, fairly unsuccessfully, in the ways of the brain. Bella is seen as the Big Cheese (principal) of the school.

The members of the SF run fairly simple lives, some even go to work at some places (Stacie is a supervisor at The Pokemon Corporation, "PokeCo" for short, Boar is a feared and clamored-after lawyer), most simply take part in general recreation most of the time. They take turns using the Portal Room to travel to various parts of history and different worlds, fighting crime stealthily.

The original purpose of the Powerteam (the successor to the SF that consisted of Dr. Seinyor, Stacie, and the Powerpuff Girls) was to keep after the Evil Brother, Dr. Seinyor's evil twin brother. It has grown from that point to encompass defending against ALL of Evil. The Evil Brother has been in hiding for some time now, and is only beginning to show up again in plots against the Super Family. A poser was responsible for the attack on the Super Family in the 7th movie, and the real Evil Brother is biding his time for a large scale assault on his hated and envied brother, Dr. Seinyor. It is rumored that this assault could provoke the Second Universal War, as the Evil Brother has reviewed both Makuta's mistakes and his victories, and plans to do it RIGHT this time.

It was from then on that Makuta increased his power... and learned that the Super Family was after him.

====== TV series format notes (merged from a separate scrap file) ======

Credits like the House on Haunted Hill
Faux VHS... real VHS
