The Super Family has no chain of command, although Dr. Seinyor is seen by everyone as the overall leader of the Super Family due to his efforts putting the team together. Each "faction" contained within the team has its own respective leader. The Bionicles, for example, have Tahu (Nuva) as their leader, despite Takanuva's recent arrival. The Redwallers accept Matthias as their chief, and the Transformers look to Optimus Prime for their specific guidance. Smaller teams, such as the Powerpuff Girls and the Rowdyruff Boys recongize Blossom and Brick as their leaders, respectfully. Those who are not of a specific faction (i.e. Grandma Pikachu, the Bandicoots, Geckos, Dragons, Swans, etc.) look to Aku Aku for their leadership. Most of the women of the SF claim a part in the team's "preschool", which educates the children of the SF, fairly unsuccessfully, in the ways of the brain. Bella is seen as the Big Cheese (principal) of the school.

The members of the SF run fairly simple lives, some even go to work at some places (Stacie is a supervisor at The Pokemon Corporation, "PokeCo" for short, Boar is a feared and clamored-after lawyer), most simply take part in general recreation most of the time. They take turns using the Portal Room to travel to various parts of history and different worlds, fighting crime stealthily. 

The original purpose of the Powerteam (the successor to the SF that consisted of Dr. Seinyor, Stacie, and the Powerpuff Girls) was to keep after the Evil Brother, Dr. Seinyor's evil twin brother. It has grown from that point to encompass defending against ALL of Evil. The Evil Brother has been in hiding for some time now, and is only beginning to show up again in plots against the Super Family. A poser was responsible for the attack on the Super Family in the 7th movie, and the real Evil Brother is biding his time for a large scale assault on his hated and envied brother, Dr. Seinyor. It is rumored that this assault could provoke the Second Universal War, as the Evil Brother has reviewed both Makuta's mistakes and his victories, and plans to do it RIGHT this time.


It was from then on that Makuta increased his power... and learned that the Super Family was after him.